Engineering combines the fields of science and maths to solve real world problems that improve the world around us. 
Those who are educated and working in those fields are called Engineers. They should:
- improve the world around us. 
- safety to life and property. 
- improve the state of the world

A profession, in the context of this course, can be considered to have the following attributes: 
1. Work that requires a high level of skill, and the use of judgment. Also the work is not simply routine. e.g. engineering design 
2. The profession requires extensive formal education, not simply practical training. e.g. a university degree 
3. The profession has special organizations that set ad enforce standards.
4. A profession provides a significant contribution to society

Professions have special professional organizations that are controlled by members of the profession to set standards of admission to the profession, to set standards of conduct for members, and to enforce these standards. Like:
- IEEE, Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, is the world's largest professional association dedicated to advancing technological innovation and excellence for the benefit of humanity.

Sociologists who study the nature of professional organizations recognise a so called social-contract model. 
In this view the primary purpose of the profession is to further the good of society. 
This social-contract model can be seen throughout professional organizations covering all areas of engineering. It also extends to the sciences, law, business and so on.

