• Ethics is a system of moral principles. They affect how people make decisions and lead their lives. 
• Ethics is concerned with what is good for individuals and society and is also described as moral philosophy. 
• The term is derived from the Greek word "ethos" which can mean custom, habit, character.

### Moral Theories 
- Utilitarianism, a right choice is one which gives maximum benefit to society as a whole. 
- Duty ethics, a right choice is one that follows ethical rules. 
- Rights ethics, a right choice is one that respects the rights of the individual person. 
- Virtue ethics, a right choice is one that supports good character traits (responsibility, honesty, competence, loyalty, trustworthiness, fairness, respect=

Any complete analysis of an ethical problem should incorporate all these moral views theories. 
This is especially useful when one or more moral theory does not provide a solution, in this case another theory may help. 
Frequently the solution from each theory is the same even though the theories are very different, thus improving confidence in the solution.


Take, for example, a chemical plant near a small city that discharges a hazardous waste into the groundwater. All four ethical theories are in agreement that this is unethical: 
- Utilitarianism: The consequences on society are clear; drinking contaminated water will bring general ill health, loss of productivity, and costs to cleanup. 
- Duty: One important duty is to adhere to the law. Probably laws are being broken here. 
- Rights: Every person in the city has the right to access healthy drinking water. 
- Virtue: contamination of a public water supply is simply irresponsible and is an action performed out of greed for profit

