Telecommunication means communication at a distance. 
The word data refers to information presented in whatever form is agreed upon by the parties creating and using the data. 
Data communications are the exchange of data between two devices via some form of transmission medium such as a wire cable.

Some definitions:
	• Source. This device generates the data to be transmitted; examples are telephones and personal computers. 
	• Transmitter: Usually, the data generated by a source system are not transmitted directly in the form in which they were generated. Rather, a transmitter transforms and encodes the information in such a way as to produce electromagnetic signals that can be transmitted across some sort of transmission system. For example, a modem takes a digital bit stream from an attached device such as a personal computer and transforms that bit stream into an analog signal that can be handled by the telephone network. 
	• Transmission system: This can be a single transmission line or a complex network connecting source and destination. 
	• Receiver: The receiver accepts the signal from the transmission system and converts it into a form that can be handled by the destination device. For example, a modem will accept an analog signal coming from a network or transmission line and convert it into a digital bit stream. 
	• Destination: Takes the incoming data from the receiver.

##### Tasks of Communications

Transmission system utilization, refers to the need to make efficient use of transmission facilities that are typically shared among a number of communicating devices. Various techniques (referred to as multiplexing) are used to allocate the total capacity of a transmission medium among a number of users. Or congestion control. 

To communicate, a device must interface with the transmission system. 

Signal generation is required for communication. The properties of the signal, such as form and intensity, must be such that the signal is (1) capable of being propagated through the transmission system, and (2) interpretable as data at the receiver. 
Not only must the signals be generated to conform to the requirements of the transmission system and receiver, but also there must be some form of synchronization between transmitter and receiver. 

There are variety of requirements for communication between two parties that might be collected under the term exchange management. If data are to be exchanged in both directions over a period of time, the two parties must cooperate. 

In all communications systems, there is a potential for error; transmitted signals are distorted to some extent before reaching their destination. Error detection and correction are required in circumstances where errors cannot be tolerated. 

Flow control is required to assure that the source does not overwhelm the destination by sending data faster than they can be processed and absorbed. 

Addressing and routing. When more than two devices share a transmission facility, a source system must indicate the identity of the intended destination. The transmission system must assure that the destination system, and only that system, receives the data. Further, the transmission system may itself be a network through which various paths may be taken. A specific route through this network must be chosen. 

Recovery is a concept distinct from that of error correction. Recovery techniques are needed in situations in which an information exchange, such as a database transaction or file transfer, is interrupted due to a fault somewhere in the system. The objective is either to be able to resume activity at the point of interruption or at least to restore the state of the systems involved to the condition prior to the beginning of the exchange. 

Message formatting has to do with an agreement between two parties as to the form of the data to be exchanged or transmitted, such as the binary code for characters. 

Security in a data communications system: The sender of data may wish to be assured that only the intended receiver actually receives the data.
A data communications facility is a complex system that cannot create or run itself. 

Network management capabilities are needed to configure the system, monitor its status, react to failures and overloads, and plan intelligently for future growth.