### Networks Terminology: 
- Activity: a specific task or set of tasks that consume time. 
- Event: the occurrence when an activity is started or completed. 
- Path: a series of connected, dependent activities between any two events. 
- Network: the logical sequence of all activities in a project represented by arcs and nodes.

Approaches: 
- Activity on node (AON)
	- An activity is represented by a node 
- Activity on arrow (AOA)
	- An activity is represented by an arrow 
- AON
	- Relatively easier
	- Unique representation of the network
	- Used by most Project Planning Software
	- Easier to implement and extend
- AOA
	- Relatively harder
	- Representation of the network is not unique
	- Mostly used for PERT and CPM

Activity relationships 
- Predecessor: activities that need to be completed immediately before that activity. 
- Successor: activities that immediately follow that activity
Serial activities: Activities that flow from one to the next in sequence
Parallel activities: Activities that can occur at the same time.
Burst activity: If there are more than one successor of the activity.
Merge activity: If there are more than one predecessor of the activity

Basic rules for networks
- The flow is from left to right.
- There is a starting node and an ending node for each network.
- Each activity should have a unique label.
- The label of each activity should be larger than any activity preceding it.
- For an activity to begin all the preceding activities should be completed.
- Looping is not allowed