Harm is usually accidental. Understanding the nature of accidents will help us to avoid them or, more importantly as an engineer, to design products and processes in such a way that accidents are minimized. 
Much of the understanding comes from experience, and understanding the cause of accidents. This includes not only understanding the contributions from faulty products, but also from the misuse of products or procedures. 

A classification of accidents is a good way to start:
- Procedural accidents: These kinds of accidents are the most common and result from someone making a bad choice or not following the established procedures. Procedural accidents tend to be well understood and can be minimised by increased training, more supervision and regulations. The engineer can play a part in minimising procedural accidents by designing procedures that are easier to execute, incorporating monitoring systems (providing a warning) and automation. 
	- Car accidents, for example, are almost always due to human error. In aviation such an error could be “pilot-error”, “air traffic control-error”, or “maintenance-error”
- Engineering accidents: Such accidents are caused by flaws in the design of the product or system. This includes, for example, failure of materials or devices, incorrect operation of a product or system under some conditions. e.g. cracks in turbine blades of aircraft engines; eventually causing the turbine to break apart. In a well-establish company, engineers can draw on a large body of experience and skills and adhere to a strong culture of excellence to produce complex safety-critical products. As well as good design, an engineer will rely on rigorous testing under a wide range of conditions to make sure a product is free of flaws that could cause an accident. Software and firmware drives almost all technology. Example:
	- In 1996, a European Ariane 5 rocket was set to deliver a payload of satellites into Earth orbit, but problems with the software caused the launch rocket to veer off its path a 37 seconds after launch and self-destruct.
- Systemic accidents: This type of accident can occur in complex systems when a sequence of errors (that individually do not cause the accident) combine to cause the accident. 
	- For example in the Challenger Shuttle Disaster, as well as poor management decisions, the accident occurred due to the combination of very cold weather, a specific wind direction causing extra cooling on a solid fuel rocket joint and very strong wind shear after the lunch. Individually these conditions may not have resulted in an accident.

