To help maximize the safety of a product, five steps must be followed. 
1. Comply with the law 
2. Conform to the current standard of the profession 
3. Consider alternative designs 
4. Foresee potential misuse of the product 
5. Test the product

As a professional engineer you are expected to incorporate these steps into your design as part of the process of maximizing the safety of the product to the user and to society in general. 
1. Comply with the law: Laws are designed to protect society from dangerous products. Be aware of, and abide by, the specific laws that correspond to your product. 
2. Conform to the current standard of the profession: Similar products designed by other professionals will tend to be safer than the law requires – be familiar with the standards set by the profession you belong to. 
3. Consider alternative designs: Alternative designs that are potentially safer must be considered and adopted if reasonably possible. 
4. Foresee potential misuse: The engineer must attempt to foresee potential misuse of the product by the consumer, and take that into consideration. Examples: 
	 • The product is used in wet or dusty conditions 
	 • The product is used under extreme temperatures 
	 • The product is subjected to mechanical shock 
	 • The product is subjected to unusual supply voltage levels. 
5. Test the product: Once the product has been designed, prototypes and the completed device must be tested rigorously for safety (including conditions of misuse). A test would normally take the product well beyond its normal operating conditions to give a good margin of safety. 