When computers, terminals, and/or other data processing devices exchange data, typical tasks to be performed are as follows: 
1. The source system must either activate the direct data communication path or inform the communication network of the identity of the desired destination system. 
2. The source system must ascertain that the destination system is prepared to receive data. 
3. The file transfer application on the source system must ascertain that the file management program on the destination system is prepared to accept and store the file for this particular user. 
4. If the file formats used on the two systems are different, one or the other system must perform a format translation function. 

The exchange of information between computers for the purpose of cooperative action is referred to as computer communications. Similarly, when two or more computers are interconnected via a comm network, the set of computer stations is referred to as computer network. 

In discussing computer communications and computer networks, we deal with two concepts: 
➢ Protocols 
➢ Computer-communications architecture, or protocol architecture 

A protocol is used for communication between entities in different entities in different systems.

Entities: An entity is anything capable of sending or receiving information, e.g. user application programs, file transfer packages, data-base management systems, electronic mail facilities, and terminals. 
Systems: A system is a physically distinct object that contains one or more entities, e.g. computers, terminals and remote sensors.

The key elements of a protocol are: 
	• Syntax: Concerns the format of the data blocks 
	• Semantics: Includes control information for coordination and error handling 
	• Timing: Includes speed matching and sequencing 

• A protocol architecture is the layered structure of hardware and software that supports the exchange of data between systems and supports distributed applications, such as electronic mail and file transfer. 
• At each layer of a protocol architecture, one or more common protocols are implemented in communicating systems. Each protocol provides a set of rules for the exchange of data between systems. 
• The most widely used protocol architecture is the TCP/IP protocol suite, which consists of the following layers: physical, network access, internet, transport, and application. • Another important protocol architecture is the seven-layer OSI model.

